---
title: tk
date: 2021-05-01 13:59:00 +0000
---

## Gigs
14 From <@699992587771052099>:
Was asked to spread word about this position at the Exeter Ed Incubator - part of the prestigious University of Exeter. It's a remote job, but you'll need to based in the UK. If interested, please reach out to Sarah Dyer (S.Dyer@exeter.ac.uk).  

18 From @Hershil Patel (GMT):  
I am looking for a product engineer to work on a new headphone project I am looking to get off the ground. essentially the idea is modular over ear headphones where if anyone any one part breaks then as part of a subscription you can get a replacement part without having to replace the whole thing. 

19 From <@479321416831860802>:
looking for a graphic designer who can take technical process and architecture diagrams and make them look attractive. Here’s an example of what I’m looking for https://www.thesubbench.com/portfolio/diagram-transformation. 

20 From @Vinay Débrou(UTC+5):
Client is looking for a react-native front-end dev for a 2 week UI sprint towards launch. Being able to start immediately is a plus. DM me with a link to your relevant work if you want me to connect you.  

21 From <@720131671055400970>:
Looking for wearable UX developer. Target platform is probably Wear OS, but this is currently more of a prototyping/exploratory engagement so this is negotiable since the hardware isn't locked yet. Please DM for further details!  

23 From @Sterling Proffer (US / ET):
cool job alert: Linktree is hiring a Head of Creators and a friend is leading the recruiting for the role. who's the right person for the job? see his post here: https://www.linkedin.com/posts/activity-6785602564038680576-U-gD.  
> Title: Head of Creators, Linktree. Description: Own and run the program for the creator/talent vertical within Linktree which encompasses influencers, content creators, talent, gaming and more. You will develop and oversee the strategy to lead Linktree’s approach to the vertical across the business and be the voice for the creator space across all functions. This role sits in our Growth team, reporting to our Head of Growth Jess who is an award-winning mentor and Managing Director of Girls in Tech Australia and work in a very cross-functional model.  

26 From @Hershil Patel (GMT):
came across this 6 week research project for a food business thought someone here might be interested.
https://twitter.com/shift_org/status/1382374723447705600. 

28 From @zim:
Looking for a lead UI/UX/Product designer and biz/legal ops intern/associate for my new startup. DM for details :pray:  
> Our vision is a world where citizens are empowered to hold large organizations accountable, and where corporations are adequately disincentivized from being naughty. We're starting with ClaimClam, a fun consumer web app that aggregates & automates claim filings for existing class action settlements (think AirHelp/MainStreet/TurboTax for claim filing). There's about $20 billion in ~$5/10/20 checks that almost no one is filing claims for; ClaimClam redistributes corporate dollars and helps people collect on money owed to them.  

29 From @zim:
Urban tech startup Numina (https://numina.co/) is looking for a contract mobile developer, for a small project, to get an app on the app stores (it’s a single-task app for sensor installers, with no commercial activity on the app). 

30 From @zim:
Justice tech startup Paladin (https://www.joinpaladin.com/) is hiring a Product Designer! https://medium.com/join-paladin/product-designer-38ef3f693a96 DM me for intro or just email Felicity directly.  
> At Paladin, we are building a global network of attorneys and legal aid organizations to deliver pro bono services to low-income individuals at scale.

31 From @Oliver King (US East):
A friend of mine is looking for a web designer to help launch a web page for a start-up he's working with. Scope of work is to help determine overall design style, illustrations, and UI/UX assets; bonus if it can be done in webflow, or even better -- implemented end-to-end. The start-up is a fast growing billing infra B2B.  

32 From @Benjamin P Taylor UK - antlerboy:
Working as a contractor through RedQuadrant, a fellow consultancy is looking for someone with Drupal 8 to 9 upgrade experience - doesn't have to be UK based or have government clearance, for once. No more details yet, I'm looking for availability and day rate please.  

## [Infrastructure](https://discord.com/channels/692111190851059762/704369362315772044/839502161108795402)
list of agenda items in this channel:

(id 5) From @Venkatesh Rao (US Pacific):
discussion of consistent open-source licensing policy for yc content (member contributed and 3rd party used)

(id 14) From @Venkatesh Rao (US Pacific):
financial governance/spending process

(id 22) From @Jenna Dixon U-4:
softlaunch member profile portal » review round » launch

(id 23) From @Maier (U+2):
discuss ui for projects bot a bit more

(id 39) From @Maier (U+2):
shoudl we use a calendar bot like apollo or sesh

(id 41) From @Nathan Acks (UTC-6):
Revisit third-party analytics/tracking decisions

(id 42) From @Oliver King (US East):
journey (ux) diagram

(id 48) From @Phil Wolff:
UX for convening an event (same topic/time for live call)

# Marketing
list of agenda items in this channel:

(id 8) From @Maier (U+2):
review past discussions for action items

(id 9) From @Maier (U+2):
discuss how to launch, in view of latest results of launch

(id 10) From @Maier (U+2):
where is teh GDPR issue to be discussed?

(id 11) From @Maier (U+2):
rethink yc-marketing goals in view of input from annual meeting

(id 12) From @Maier (U+2):
how to coordinate the various players involved in launch, especially continuous launch

(id 13) From @Maier (U+2):
how to build a calendar of expected marketing events, like launches

(id 15) From @Venkatesh Rao (US Pacific):
discuss potentially presenting our capabilities by vertical sector for better marketing (healthcare, robotics) instead of/in addition to offering type (futures, analysis, trends...) or format (pop-up think tank, whitepaper...)

(id 27) From @Maier (U+2):
for @Venkatesh Rao (US Pacific) interactive serendipity engine for yc: https://discordapp.com/channels/692111190851059762/756113566452678707/799698551974264852

(id 34) From @Phil Wolff:
discuss whether to have yaks offer packetized work services a la fiverr, operating yak as a platform. So combining vertical, type, and format as a crisply defined, fixed-price, fixed-schedule, specific inputs-outputs product. $95 for a 20 minute coffee zoom to talk over a tactical execution problem in your healthcare technology digital transformation project.

(id 44) From @Maier (U+2):
review @Phil Wolff proposal's for coffee with yak and decide how many yaks

## Online Governance Studies
list of agenda items in this channel:

(id 18) From @Venkatesh Rao (US Pacific):
establish content licensing model for website content

(id 19) From @Venkatesh Rao (US Pacific):
establish financial governance model

(id 33) From @Venkatesh Rao (US Pacific):
review status of meta-project list

(id 35) From @Venkatesh Rao (US Pacific):
discuss cost and benefits of use of email for coordinating YC and whether it is possible to do without email given our constraints, with some suitable reading.

(id 36) From @Venkatesh Rao (US Pacific):
discuss a mechanism for publicizing things that require no new infrastructure or project-like work, but just a clear statement of recommended behavior on a key point. Like a "best practice note" or "fatwa" or "supreme court opinion". This might actually be a way to build up a proper Yak Handbook, as a set of case-law type opinions. We can discuss something like "PM should use emails" at the meeting, vote on it, and then 1 person is charged with writing the "majority opinion" and dissenters can choose to add "minority opinions." Maybe in the announcements channel or a separate new policies channel.

(id 51) From @Venkatesh Rao (US Pacific):
ip policy for hackathon output

(id 52) From @Jenna Dixon U-4:
policy for website member profiles for hackathon participants yay/nay

## Rover
list of agenda items in this channel:

(id 30) From @Venkatesh Rao (US Pacific):
discuss ground rules for using tweeting mechanism from discord to market this project

(id 31) From @Venkatesh Rao (US Pacific):
discuss how to publish this project on the yakcollective.org website (perhaps a photostream? notebook?)

(id 32) From @Venkatesh Rao (US Pacific):
discuss how to use separate twitter account for rovers to auto-tweet and whether to have one per rover or one for all rovers

(id 53) From @Venkatesh Rao (US Pacific):
discuss project management tooling choices and polyglot vs monolithic approach

(id 54) From @Venkatesh Rao (US Pacific):
marketing exhaust

(id 55) From @Venkatesh Rao (US Pacific):
limited scope participation

(id 56) From @Venkatesh Rao (US Pacific):
legal and IP for rover assets/code
